[SOUND]
>> Hello again,
in this video we are evolving our
attackers so that when they bump into
a defender and, here we go,
something, don't shoot, there we go.
They start to switch animation
state to attacking and
start to attack the defenders.
So let's jump in and get started.
Right, let's have a look
at what we have got.
In our attackers, we have got one attacker
which is the lizard and looking at it now,
the collision is in
slightly the wrong spot.
So I'm gonna change the collision,
clicking on Edit Collider, just move it up
so it's actually over the lizard and
not just hanging out in a weird spot.
There we go, apply that back to be PreFab.
All right, now I've got one lizard.
What else do we need?
Who else do we need in our game?
Well, let's have a look at that.
I am gonna have in my execution of this
game a lizard, a fox, a weird jelly or
jello kind of dude, and this guy
who's called Jabba for some reason,
I guess because he looks
like Jabba the Hutt.
And well done, Rick.
Good work.
[LAUGH] I'm just like Sherlock Holmes for
figuring that out, aren't I?
Okay, so I've got speed, attack,
health, and a special ability.
This speed and attack and health,
I'm not gonna go into too much detail.
It's kind of regular guy, fast guy.
And then this guy's
a little bit different, and
that guy's a little bit different as well.
In terms of the special,
the lizard doesn't have a special,
he just runs up and hits things.
The fox is gonna jump
over particular things,
specifically the gravestone or the,
is that what we're calling it?
Gravestone, yes.
That we put into our game
doesn't stop the fox.
The Jello guy, gotta make myself
North Americanized, is Ghosting.
So he doesn't bump into anything.
Just goes walk, walk, walk, walk,
walk, right through everything.
And then this big old
guy goes really slowly.
Classic kind of tank
dude smashes into stuff.
And I'll leave a question mark here.
This is gonna be something that at
some point you can go ahead and
make a cool special move for
the Java character.
Now what do we need to do in what spot?
We've gone our three scripts
I'm gonna be referring to.
Attacker and then Lizard script or
Fox scripts is gonna be specific
to the individual attackers.
So each character, each attacker will
have its own script and then health.
With an attacker, we want it to move left,
we've done that, set speed,
done that, update animation state, we'll
do that, and attack a specific target,
we'll do that as well.
What I mean by specific is we want
our attackers to only be attacking
one defender at once.
And then on, say, the lizard script,
or on the Fox script, or
on the Java script,
we will listen for the collision.
So I'm gonna see when
collision takes place, and
then we're gonna be executing
the specific behavior of jump etc.
And also saying now it's time to attack.
And then on our health script, well,
we're tracking current health and
decrease in health.
Okay, so, let's start the process
of giving our lizard what it needs.
First of all, it needs an attack
animation, so let us go and
get ourselves sorted out there.
If you look for sprites, for me, it's the
Not In Use and we've got Lizard Attacking.
I'm gonna drag that into Lizard.
Now there might be something specific
about the lizard attacking Sprite sheet.
when you have a look at it,
yep this is happening here.
You can see 2048x607, and when we do our
calculations, there is I believe 15x6,
it ends up with a weird something,
something point, something or rather.
It doesn't quite make sense.
What's happening here, is our original,
Sprite is bigger than that.
Let me see if I right-click,
Show In Explorer,
we'll see what the original
file is in here.
I'm gonna right-click,
Show Properties, Properties,
and we can see it is under Details,
3765x1116.
So it's a much bigger image, but when
we look in Unity, it thinks it is 2048.
And the reason that's happening
is our maximum size for
our default has been capped at 2048.
So if you click on default, you might
be clicked on one of the other buttons,
this one that looks like the override for
PC, etc.
If you click on Default and
change the maximum size to 4096,
That means that it will allow that
size of image in our game, and
it won't try to compress it when we
import our asset into our Unity build.
So if I click, whoops,
[LAUGH] I clicked Revert.
If I click the right size and
Apply, by default,
then when we have a look at it,
it's 3765x1116.
Now we can go ahead and
click on our Sprite editor,
and you see all this stuff in here.
I know, from doing my calculation already,
that when I do my cell size, it's going to
be similar to previously, with the Lizard,
251x186, and then slice that up.
Check on that,
looks like we've got it correct, good.
And then click Apply.
All right,
now we've sliced up our Sprite sheet.
You might say, well, do we wanna not
have such big Sprite sheets in our game?
Yes, if you're making
a mobile game in particular,
you might wanna try to limit the size.
We don't really need what's that,
15x6 animations of the guy eating.
It's way too many animations,
but we're kind of constrained by
the assets that we've got from this
asset pack, so we'll deal with it.
But what's going on here is
Unity when you build your game,
when you export it as a PC build, or
as a web build, or as a Android build.
Then it will apply compression so that
raw file that I was looking at before,
where is it, this raw file here won't end
up being, I think this was 16 megabytes.
Pull this up, yeah, 16 megabytes.
It'll be smaller in
whatever the game package
is that's exported because Unity
is doing its own compression.
Okay, now what do we need to do.
Well we need to have a new animation.
So let's click on our Lizard.
Go to Animation.
And where it says Lizard Jump,
Create New Click.
Save this in Assets Animations, Attackers.
This will be Lizard Attack
when the lizards attack, okay.
Now, what do we wanna have in here?
Well we need to click on our lizard?
Yes, Add Property.
Find the Body.
Done this a few times now.
Sprite Renderer,
all the way down to Sprite, click on plus.
That'll bring in a couple of Sprites.
I'm gonna go to my
Lizard Attacking Sprites.
So they're being cut up, all 88 of them,
which is a little bit excessive.
Generally I recommend not
bothering with 88, but
we'll deal with what we've been given.
Drag those over in.
Okay, that all should be pretty good.
Click on Play.
Munch, munch, munch, munch.
All right, it looks cool, looks cool
indeed, and change it to 24 frames so
we got the right speed.
Yeah, nom, nom, nom, nom.
Okay, nom noms!
Good, we got our nom nom attack.
Is that an attack?
The attack of the nom noms, I'm sure
someone out there has heard of a game that
has a nom nom attacking it somewhere.
Okay, I hit Save cuz I haven't saved for
a while.
Go to Animation, I run down to Animator,
you can see Lizard Attack
has been dropped in there.
Let me give ourselves
a little bit of space.
Now, we need to be transitioning from
Walk to Attack, and Attack to Walk.
We don't need to be transitioning from
Jump to Attack, because we're not going to
allow the lizard to be attacking anything
until it's totally entered the scene and
finished its jump.
So click on Lizard Walk, right-click
Make Transition to Lizard Attack.
Lizard Attack, right-click
Make Transition to Lizard Walk.
We'll click on over in parameters,
we need to add a new parameter
which will be a ball, and
the ball will be called is attacking.
Great stuff, click click.
Lets just test that out with
the guy we've got now seen,
once he's finished doing his jump.
Jump, now if I click on Attacking,
he's attacking, yep.
Starting and stopping.
Okay, cool.
And
the problem is he's still
moving across the screen.
What do we need to do there?
Little mini challenge for you.
How do we stop him sliding
across the screen?
Okay, the way we do that is
we find the attack animation.
We put in a event right
at the very very start.
Click on our Event button there,
Add Event.
And in our Function, we select
SetMovementSpeed, and set that to 0.
Now, when we click on our Animator,
click on Play.
We've got our little checkbox we
can click isAttacking on and off.
Attacking, he stops,
turn off isAttacking, [SOUND] okay, and
what's happening here is another test for
you.
Why is he staying in his lizard attack.
It's because we're not setting,
where are we in here in our
lizard attack transition.
We have Exit Time ticked on,
so we tick Exit Time off.
On here I'm going to transition to 0,
just cuz I like to do that.
And then transition is 0,
and has Exit Time off.
So the moment the transition happens,
we want it to go into
the other animation state.
It's good to do these things when you
can still just tick your box on and off,
cuz if you have to wait until you've got
your code written, sometimes it's a bit of
a pain to figure out is that my code or
is that the way I've set up my animator?
Okay, so he's not stopping at all,
that is because I've broken something,
my transition here, okay, so,
my tick box some of you have been probably
yelling at me Rick, you're an idiot.
I am an idiot.
I've been ticking the box,
it hasn't actually been doing anything
because I hadn't put my conditions in yet.
It was just going from Walk,
to Attack, and then back to Walk.
And I thought, I made one of those,
I'm pushing the button, and
[LAUGH] it's working, it wasn't.
Okay, so let's add our conditions on
the transition from Walk to Attack.
It'd be isAttacking is true,
that's correct.
Now, on the other way around,
it's gonna be isAttacking is false.
So I was clicking
the little + button there,
isAttacking populated automatically, and
then changing it from true to false.
Now, unless I've done some other
dumb thing, which is quite possible.
Let me click the box,
bump, stops, and eats.
There we go, golden, okay.
So we've got the behavior that we want,
nom, nom, nom, nom.
And now we're ready for him to do what?
We're ready for him to have that code,
so let's click on Lizard.
Just make sure everything's
applied back in the prefab.
We'll go open a script,
which script should we open up?
We'll open up the Attacker script.
We'll start by creating a variable
which will be the current target, so
I'll make it a game object for now.
We might make it a defender in the future,
but
we'll make a GameObject
called this currentTarget.
So this is who you're targeting,
only one at a time in our
particular game at the moment.
And now we can scroll all the way down
to the bottom of our script underneath
SetMovementSpeed.
We'll make ourselves a public method,
public void, and we'll call this Attack.
And in Attack we need to
know who we are attacking.
So we're going to ask for
a GameObject and we'll call it target.
And the moment we are attacking,
what we want to do is set
our animator to attacking.
So here's another mini challenge for you.
Go ahead and write the line that will
set our animation to being attacking.
Might need to go have a look
at some of our other code, but
there's a little mini challenge for you.
Okay, first of all we
need to get the animator.
So GetComponent, Animator,
and what we'll do,
what we'll SetBool and
we'll SetBool to be what, isAttacking.
Now I made a big mess up last time
on this, let's go to isAttacking.
And highlight it, copy,
back over into here, paste.
That actually did get it correct,
but you never know.
And we'll say that will now be true.
And then we also need to set whatever
we've just parsed in when this called,
when attack is called,
we parsed in the target.
So now we'll say that our
currentTarget = what, equals target.
There we go.
Now, we need to have the moment
where we call out attack.
And to do that we'll create
ourselves a new script.
And I said before we'll have a script for
every particular attacker.
Say now, scripts folder, right click.
Create C# Script, I'll call this Lizard.
Let's open up Lizard.
Gonna get rid of Start and Update,
I don't think I'm gonna need those.
What we do need is an OnTrigger into 2D,
so void OnTrigger, enter 2D.
And just to be really clear
instead of calling it collision,
I'm gonna call it otherCollider.
otherCollider, or
the thing we collided with's collider
is basically what this is in here.
And then we'll create ourselves
a GameObject that we'll call otherObject,
the other thing that we've
bumped into just now.
And that will equal
the otherCollider.gameObject.
Okay, just establishing that
we have this game object.
So we're taking it from just being,
I know about the collider of an object,
to be being I now about the game
object I've just bumped into.
Now, I want to write an if statement.
Where I'm looking to see if it's
a defender, and if it is an attack.
And this is where I've got a challenge for
you.
That challenge is finish
our collision event.
So, I've written this in my,
this is a pretty bright green, isn't it?
Okay, in my little pseudo
comment code here.
If the other object has
a defender component,
then call our public attack
method we just created.
So there's a little if statement I'd
like for you to take on and write.
So give it your best shot and
I'll see you back here when you're done.
Okay, so if otherObject, that we've
just created, otherObject.GetComponent.
And what sort of component
does it need to have?
It needs to have a Defender component.
We wanna know, are you a defender?
If not, we are not interested, but
if you do have a defender component,
that means you're worthy of being
attacked, then we wanna get my object, so
my lizard object's attacker script.
So GetComponent, because that
belongs to me as a game object, so
I have a component which is Attacker.
And then on that we call the attack
script, sorry the attack method.
And the attack will attack what,
otherObject.
It's a little bit tricky but
basically we are bumping into something,
we're saying it's a game object, does it
have a defender script and then now we
know from this point on that this is the
thing we're attacking, this otherObject.
So let's see how this work.
Save that up.
Jump back over into Unity.
Now click on Lizard.
Remember or remembering, I've just spent
the last five minutes wondering why my
code hasn't work and I've just edited that
piece out, is I've forgotten to add my
Lizard component to my Lizard,
which is what we should do now.
So add lizard, apply that to the prefab so
it actually knows the code
that we've created.
It knows about it.
And then, well I'm here I'm gonna
click on isTrigger as well, and
the box Collider for
the lizard, click on Apply.
Click Play, and then I think it's gonna be
the tombstone that's gonna work the best
for this,
cuz currently we've tuned our cactus,
and our gnome to completely
smash things as they come along.
So he stops and starts nibbling on it,
that's great, nom, nom, nom, nom.
And we'll see if we can get it as well
with a cactus, and there we go yeah.
So they're now stopping, they're
attacking, we don't have the proper
health component setup just yet so they're
gonna stand there forever attacking.
But they're now switching into
their transition state based upon
our animation trigger.
So great work, you can probably
tune your colliders a little bit so
it's a little bit tighter, so it looks
like they're actually nibbling on things.
So great stuff and
I'll see you in the next video.